---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-02-07
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - WOD
summary: "My experience with WODs."
---

The 1st WOD had us set up a browser about the histories of Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer. We were tasked to add headers, paragraphs under each section, links to different websites, and images of the different browsers. Through this WOD I’ve gotten really confident with creating a web page using the emmet abbreviation and adding all sorts of alterations to customize it. I’ve learned how to add hyperlinks to areas within the page. I’ve gotten more comfortable with adding different headers, paragraphs, and separating things so it doesn’t look too overwhelming. The 2nd WOD had us use css and change the fonts on our webpage. This WOD introduced me to changing the styles of a webpage and get one step closer to customization. The 3rd WOD continued to have us work on formatting using css with changing the hyperlinks into a horizontal format and also changing our paragraphs into columns. 

My approach for the first WOD was to read over what it is that I needed to do in the WOD and get familiar with the codes that I will be using for headers, links, styling and so forth. At this first part I am not going to lie, I had ChatGPT explain how to format certain codes. After getting comfortable with what to do I started my first recording and set up my timer. Even with the preparation I made a lot of mistakes. Many being stupid ones like: misspelling “browser”, not putting the right codes for links, or missing the # when making the hyperlinks for the table of contents. Once I finally got to the end of instruction I had made it to 50 minutes. I took some time to regroup and look at what I had to fix. I then watched the video just through the part I had trouble with and checked where I was going wrong. Then I deleted the file and restarted. I started it up again and was doing really well, though I ran into a problem at around 18 minutes. I started to panic even though time didn’t run out and stopped at 18 minutes and went over everything and saw where I messed up. I probably shouldn’t have done this because two minutes later I saw what I did wrong which was forget the “#” in the area where we have to put a hyperlink for the table of contents. I finally started my go and did it so many times it came natural. I still had small hiccups but nothing like before. I finally finished it in 16 minutes and 7 seconds. It honestly felt so good to be able to code without having to look at references, watch videos, or ask chatgpt for help.

For the second WOD I had a different approach with starting it. I have a very difficult time learning through just reading. I love to have tutorials or even just visuals of how to do things. Since I wasn’t really comfortable with changing fonts in VSCode I watched the video on how to do it. I didn’t take notes, I just watched and tried to soak in as much information as possible. I found this really helpful because I was able to visualize what to do for this lab. I did this lab once and my time was around 10 minutes. Since this lab was a little easier than the first it didn’t take too long to get the hang of the code necessary for it.

The last WOD I did the same thing as the second and it really helped me. Since we didn’t do too much of this in class yet I wasn’t sure how to do it just based on the readings. I feel that no matter how many times I read over something it is really difficult to understand. This portion I was making stupid mistakes throughout my take but I did finish it on the first go at the 12 minute mark. This WOD didn’t have too many parts to it which made it easier than WOD 1. I feel that once you get through the meatier sections of WOD 1 everything after is just a matter of understanding and trying the code yourself. 

My advice for any future students about to go through this is read over the instructions and get a gist of what it is you need to do for the WOD. I remember seeing one of the instructions to not watch the video showing how to do the WOD which I really think helps (in some circumstances). After finishing your first run through (assuming that it takes longer than the recommended time) then look at the video for help on the parts where you got stuck. I recommend not watching the video when you have a good foundation for the WOD. If it’s something completely new I think it’s alright to look over the video first just to get an understanding if readings don’t work for you. Eventually your time will lower after repeating it a couple of times to the point where you don’t need to look at anyone else's code or tutorial.
